>> Ifill: TENSIONS OVER THE FATE
OF UKRAINE ESCALATED TODAY.
RUSSIA TIGHTENED IT'S MILITARY
GRIP ON THE CRIMEA REGION, WHILE
THE U.S. AND EUROPE EWIGHTED
PUNITIVE ACTIONS AGAINST MOSCOW.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY, YOGA AND
CONCENTRATION EXERCISES-- FOR
CHILDREN.
BRINGING FOCUS AND CALM TO YOUNG
LIVES AFFLICTED BY CHRONIC
STRESS AND P.T.S.D.
>> DO I THINK THAT STRESS OF OUR
COMMUNITY CAN GET TO A CHILD?
110% ABSOLUTELY.
FOR EVERY CHILD WHO ACTS OUT IN
OUT SCHOOL, I CAN LOOK EXACTLY
TO THE POINT IN THEIR LIFE WHERE
THINGS ARENT WORKING AND EVERY
SINGLE TIME THERE IS A CONCRETE,
VERY SAD STORY, ABOUT WHY THIS
CHILD IS NOT GETTING WHAHE OT R
SHE NEEDS.
PLUS, THE U.S. ELECTION SEASON
HEATS UP,
WE LOOK AT THE FIGHT TO BECOME
TEXAS' NEXT GOVERNOR, AHEAD OF
TOMORROW'S PRIMARIES.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE CONFRONTATION IN
CRIMEA SHOWED NO SIGN OF ABATING
TODAY, AS RUSSIA AND THE WEST
FACED OFF.
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND OTHER
WESTERN LEADERS TALKED OF
SANCTIONS, BUT THERE WAS NO SIGN
MOSCOW WAS LISTENING.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS ON THE DAY'S
DEVELOPMENTS.
>> Reporter: ACROSS CRIMEA,
RUSSIAN FORCES TOOK OVER BORDER
CROSSINGS AND SURROUNDED
MILITARY COMPOUNDS.
THERE WERE REPORTS OF A RUSSIAN
ULTIMATUM TO UKRAINIAN FORCES
THERE TO SURRENDER BY 5:00 A.M.
LOCAL TIME TUESDAY.
THAT WAS DENIED AS NONSENSE BY
MOSCOW.
A UKRAINIAN OFFICER AT AN
INFANTRY BASE SAID HIS COMMAND
>> ( translated ):  WE HAVE NOT
HANDED OVER ANY WEAPONS.
OUR ENTIRE TEAM IS STILL HERE.
WE REMAIN FAITHFUL TO THE
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE, WE ARE READY
TO FULFIL OUR TASKS, AND SHOULD
IT BE NECESSARY, WE ARE READY TO
LAY DOWN OUR LIVES FOR THE OATH
WE HAVE TAKEN TO THE PEOPLE OF
UKRAINE.
>> Reporter: THERE'VE BEEN NO
OVERT HOSTILITIES SINCE THE
RUSSIAN TAKEOVER OF CRIMEA BEGAN
SATURDAY.
BUT RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR
PUTIN WATCHED WAR GAMES TODAY
OUTSIDE ST PETERSBURG, NEAR THE
FINNISH BORDER.
SIMILAR MANEUVERS CONTINUED IN
SOUTHERN RUSSIA ALONG THE
UKRAINE BORDER, AMID FEARS
MOSCOW COULD MOVE INTO OTHER
PARTS OF EASTERN UKRAINE, WHERE
ETHNIC RUSSIANS PREDOMINATE.
IN KIEV, THE NEW PRIME MINISTER,
ARSENIY YATSENYUK, SPOKE AFTER
MEETING WITH BRITISH FOREIGN
SECRETARY WILLIAM HAGUE.
>> THOSE WHO ARE TODAY IN
CRIMEA, THEY PRESENT AN ILLEGAL,
AND I WOULD REITERATE AGAIN, AN
ILLEGAL POWER IN CRIMEA.
THEY TRIED TO SQUEEZE UKRAINIAN
ASSETS; THEY TRY TO CONFISCATE
UKRAINIAN PROPERTY; THEY TRY TO
DISARM UKRAINIAN ARMY.
FOR THESE KIND OF ACTIONS THEY
WILL BE PROSECUTED UNDER
DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL LAW
AND THEY HAVE TO KNOW THIS.
>> Reporter: NO ONE TALKED OF A
MILITARY RESPONSE.
INSTEAD, THE U.S. AND OTHERS
SOUGHT TO MUSTER DIPLOMATIC AND
ECONOMIC PRESSURE.
>> I THINK THE STRONG
CONDEMNATION THAT WAS RECEIVED
BY COUNTRIES AROUND THE WORLD
INDICATES THE DEGREE TO WHICH
RUSSIA IS ON THE WRONG SIDE OF
HISTORY ON THIS.
>> Reporter: PRESIDENT OBAMA,
MEETING WITH ISRAEL'S PRIME
MINISTER AT THE WHITE HOUSE,
WARNED RUSSIA WILL PAY A PRICE.
>> THERE ARE REALLY TWO PATHS
THAT RUSSIA CAN TAKE AT THIS
POINT.
OBVIOUSLY THE FACTS ON GROUND IN
CRIMEA ARE DEEPLY TROUBLING AND
RUSSIA HAS A LARGE ARMY THAT
BORDERS UKRAINE.
BUT WHAT IS ALSO TRUE IS THAT
OVER TIME, THIS WILL BE A COSTLY
PROPOSITION FOR RUSSIA.
>> Reporter: THE PRESIDENT IS
DISPATCHING SECRETARY OF STATE
KERRY TO KIEV FOR MEETINGS
TOMORROW WITH INTERIM GOVERNMENT
LEADERS AND PARLIAMENTARIANS.
AND HE CALLED ON CONGRESS TO ACT
QUICKLY ON ECONOMIC AID FOR
UKRAINE.
IN BRUSSELS TODAY, KERRY'S
EUROPEAN UNION COUNTERPARTS
URGED RUSSIA TO TAKE THE PATH OF
MEDIATION.
CARL BILDT IS SWEDEN'S FOREIGN
MINISTER
>> I THINK SOME IN RUSSIA ARE
STILL IMPRESSED BY THEIR
MILITARY MIGHT.
BUT I THINK AFTER A WHILE THEY
WILL SEE THE LIMITATIONS.
MILITARY MIGHT IS NOT THE WAY TO
MAKE FRIENDS IN EUROPE, NOT TO
MAKE FRIENDS IN THE WORLD, AND I
THINK AT SOME POINT IN TIME THEY
WILL START TO SEE THAT.
>> Reporter: BUT IN SWITZERLAND,
RUSSIA'S FOREIGN MINISTER,
SERGEY LAVROV, AGAIN SAID MOSCOW
WAS PROTECTING RUSSIAN CITIZENS
IN CRIMEA.
AND HE LASHED BACK AT THREATS OF
ECONOMIC PENALTIES.
>> ( translated ): THOSE WHO
ATTEMPT TO INTERPRET THE
SITUATION AS AN ACT OF
AGGRESSION AND THREATEN US WITH
SANCTIONS AND BOYCOTTS, THESE
ARE THE VERY SAME PARTNERS OF
OURS WHO CONSISTENTLY HAVE
ENCOURAGED POLITICAL FORCES
CLOSE TO THEM TO DELIVER AN
ULTIMATUM AND REFUSE DIALOGUE,
TO IGNORE THE CONCERNS OF
SOUTHERN AND EASTERN REGIONS OF
UKRAINE, WHICH HAS ULTIMATELY
POLARIZED UKRAINIAN SOCIETY.
>> Reporter: BACK IN KIEV,
RUMORS OF WAR STIRRED DIFFERING
RESPONSES.
THIS COUPLE, A UKRAINIAN WOMAN
AND RUSSIAN MAN, URGED CALM.
>> ( translated ): WE ARE
AGAINST THE CONFLICT. WE ARE FOR
PEACE AND FRIENDSHIP.
WE DO NOT WANT WAR.
>> WE DO NOT WANT PEOPLE TO KILL
EACH OTHER.
WE WANT OPLEPE TO LIVE
PEACEFULLY EVERYWHERE, ON ALL
CONTINENTS AND EVERYWHERE IN
OTHER COUNTRIES.
>> Reporter: BUT OTHERS SEEMED
READY TO MAN THE RAMPARTS.
>> WE HAVE NO FEAR AT ALL.
NOW OUR CHILDREN ARE GOING TO
MILITARY REGISTRATION OFFICES.
AND IF NEEDED, WE WILL CREATE
PEOPLE'S EMERGENCY VOLUNTEER
CORPS AND WE WILL PROTECT OUR
STATE.
>> Reporter: IN MOSCOW,
THOUSANDS MARCHED SUNDAY IN
SUPPORT OF PUTIN'S MOVE INTO
UKRAINE.
>> TO GIVE UP UKRAINE FOR THE
BENEFIT OF RADICALS WOULD BE
VERY BAD.
PUTIN DID A FANTASTIC THING WHEN
HE FORCED GEORGIA TO PEACE.
THE SAME THING NEEDS TO BE DONE
WITH UKRAINE TOO.
>> Reporter: YET NOT ALL
RUSSIANS AGREED.
A SMALL PROTEST OUTSIDE THE
DEFENSE MINISTRY RESULTED IN
ABOUT 40 ARRESTS YESTERDAY.
>> ( translated ): WE DON'T WANT
THE WAR TO BEGIN BETWEEN OUR
COUNTRY AND UKRAINE, WHICH WE
CONSIDER TO BE OUR BROTHERLY
GOVERNMENT, BECAUSE OF IMPERIAL
AMBITIONS OF RUSSIAN RULING
ELITES.
>> Reporter: GLOBAL MARKETS ALSO
REACTED NERVOUSLY, NOWHERE MORE
SO THAN IN RUSSIA.
>> ( translated ): WE SEE A
BROAD STEADY FALL ACROSS ALL
ASSETS, WHICH ONLY CONFIRMS THAT
MACROECONOMIC FACTORS DO NOT
MATTER HERE, OR AN ISOLATED
STORY IN SOME ONE ASSET CLASS.
THE WHOLE MARKET JUST GAVE WAY,
IT RAPIDLY WENT DOWN.
>> Reporter: THE MAIN RUSSIAN
STOCK EXCHANGE WAS DOWN 11% ON
THE DAY, AND THE RUBLE TRADED AT
ITS LOWEST RATE EVER VERSUS THE
DOLLAR AND EURO
>> Ifill: WE'LL HAVE MUCH MORE
ON UKRAINE, INCLUDING SOME OF
THIS AFTERNOON'S U.N. SECURITY
COUNCIL DEBATE AND AN INTERVIEW
WITH A TOP WHITE HOUSE ADVISOR,
RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY
THE SITUATION IN UKRAINE SHOOK
UP WALL STREET.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 153 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,168.
THE NASDAQ FELL MORE THAN 30
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,277.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 DROPPED MORE
THAN 13 POINTS TO FINISH AT
1845.
THE TENSIONS ALSO SENT OIL
PRICES SHARPLY HIGHER, TO NEARLY
$105 DOLLARS A BARREL.
THE WINTER OF 2014 DEALT ANOTHER
BLOW TO MUCH OF THE EASTERN
U.S. TODAY.
ICE AND SNOW-- UP TO EIGHT
INCHES IN PLACES-- SHUT DOWN
MUCH OF THE MID-ATLANTIC,
INCLUDING OFFICIAL WASHINGTON.
IT ALSO GROUNDED THOUSANDS OF
FLIGHTS AND FORCED SCHOOLS TO
CLOSE AGAIN.
MEANWHILE IN NORTH TEXAS, AN ICY
INTERSTATE CAUSED A MILES-LONG
BACKUP DURING THE MORNING
COMMUTE.
SNOWSTORMS AND FREEZING
TEMPERATURES HELD BACK THE U.S.
AUTO BUSINESS AGAIN LAST MONTH.
GENERAL MOTORS, FORD AND TOYOTA
ALL REPORTED SALES WERE DOWN BY
SINGLE-DIGITS.
VOLKSWAGEN SAW A 14% DECLINE.
RYSLCHER AND NISSAN FARED
BETTER, REPORTING DOUBLE-DIGIT
GAINS.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY HAS FINALIZED NEW RULES
TO DRAMATICALLY REDUCE THE
AMOUNT OF SULFUR IN GASOLINE.
THE CHEMICAL IS LINKED TO
RESPIRATORY DISEASE AND CAN FOUL
POLLUTION CONTROL EQUIPMENT IN
CARS.
THE OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY WARN
THE RULES WILL DRIVE
GAS PRICES UP BY
6 TO 9 CENTS A GALLON.
BUT THE E.P.A. SAYS THERE WILL
BE VIRTUALLY NO EFFECT.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SOUGHT TODAY TO
SALVAGE HOPES FOR AN ISRAELI-
PALESTINIAN PEACE PLAN.
AT A WHITE HOUSE MEETING, HE
PRESSED ISRAELI
PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU FOR TOUGH DECISIONS,
WHILE NETANYAHU HELD OUT LITTLE
HOPE OF A BREAKTHROUGH.
>> IT IS STILL POSSIBLE TO
CREATE TWO STATES, A JEWISH
STATE OF ISRAEL AND A STATE OF
PALESTINE IN WHICH PEOPLE ARE
LIVING SIDE BY SIDE IN PEACE AND
SECURITY.
BUT IT'S DIFFICULT.
IT REQUIRES COMPROMISE ON ALL
SIDES.
>> ISRAEL HAS BEEN DOING ITS
PART, AND I REGRET TO SAY THAT
THE PALESTINIANS HAVEN'T.
I KNOW THIS FLIES IN THE FACE OF
CONVENTIONAL WISDOM, BUT IT'S
THE TRUTH.
>> Ifill: EVEN AS THE TWO MET,
ISRAEL ANNOUNCED IT STARTED WORK
ON MORE THAN TWICE AS MANY HOMES
IN WEST BANK SETTLEMENTS LAST
YEAR, THAN THE YEAR BEFORE.
>> OSAMA BIN LADEN'S
SON-IN-LAW WENT ON TRIAL IN NEW
YORK TODAY FOR ON CHARGES HE
PLOTTED TO KILL AMICANERS IN HIS
ROLE AS SPOKESMAN FOR
AL-QAEDA.
>> IF CONVICTED.
HE COULD FACE LIFE IN PRISON.
THE SUPREME COURT IS BE.
THE SUPREME COURT IS SET TO
DECIDE WHETHER AN I.Q. SCORE
ALONE IS ENOUGH TO SAY SOMEONE
QUALIFIES FOR THE DEATH PENALTY.
LAWYERS FOR A MAN ON FLORIDA'S
DEATH ROW ARGUED TODAY HE IS
MENTALLY DISABLED, EVEN THOUGH
HIS I.Q. IS ABOVE THE WIDELY
ACCEPTED CUT-OFF OF 70.
THE HIGH COURT BANNED EXECUTIONS
OF MENTALLY DISABLED INMATES, 12
YEARS AGO, BUT THE STATES DECIDE
WHO FITS THAT DEFINITION.
HOUSE REPUBLICANS OPENED A
CAMPAIGN TODAY FOR A TOTAL
OVERHAUL OF SOCIAL PROGRAMS.
HOUSE BUDGET CHAIR PAUL RYAN
ISSUED A 204-PAGE CRITIQUE OF
FEDERAL ANTI-POVERTY EFFORTS.
HE ARGUED SCORES OF PROGRAMS
ACTUALLY CREATE A POVERTY TRAP
THAT KEEP PEOPLE FROM GETTING
AHEAD.
THE REPORT CAME A DAY BEFORE THE
PRESIDENT LAYS OUT HISUDGE BT
PLAN FOR THE COMING FISCAL YEAR.
A SLAVERY-ERA DRAMA AND A SCI-FI
THRILLER HEADLINED THE WINNERS
AT LAST NIGHT'S ACADEMY AWARDS.
THE "BEST PICTURE OSCAR WENT TO
12 YEARS A SLAVE, WHICH ALSO WON
FOR BEST ADAPTED SCREENPLAY AND
BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS.
GRAVITY WON SEVEN OSCARS, THE
MOST OF ANY FILM, INCLUDING BEST
DIRECTOR AND MOST OF THE
TECHNICAL CATEGORIES.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR
U.S. DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISER TONY BLINKEN ON THE
UKRAINE CRISIS.
AND A DEBATE OVER MOSCOW'S
MILITARY MOVES IN CRIMEA.
PLUS, HELPING KIDS COPE WITH
STRESS AND P.T.S.D.
AND THE FIGHT TO BECOME THE LONE
STAR STATE'S NEXT GOVERNOR.
>> Woodruff: WE FOCUS NOW ON THE
UNITED STATES' RESPONSE TO
RUSSIAN ACTIONS IN UKRAINE.
THE U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL HELD A
FOR THAT, WE TURN TO PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR, TONY BLINKEN.
HE JOINED US FROM THE WHITE
HOUSE EARLIER THIS EVENING.
>> TONY BLINKEN, WELCOME.
DESPITE A 90-MINUTE PHONE CALL.
RUSSIAN IS TAKING CONTROL OF THE
CRIMEAN REGION.
IS THERE ANYTHING THAT CAN BE
DONE TO GET THEM TO PULL BACK?
>> JUDY, THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN
LEADING THE EFFORT TO MOBILIZE
THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY IN
SUPPORT OF UKRAINE AND TO
ISOLATE RUSSIA FOR THE ACTIONS
ITS TAKEN IN UKRAINE AND WE'RE
SEEING STRONG CONDEMNATIONS FROM
THE G-7 COUNTRIES, NATO AND THE
INDIVIDUAL COUNTRIES AROUND THE
WORLD AND THAT PRESSURE WHICH IS
BEGINNING TO ISOLATE RUSSIA'S
ALREADY HAVING AN IMPACT.
WE'VE SEEN RUSSIAN FINANCIAL
MARKETS DROPPED 13% TODAY, THE
RIEWGLE HIT AN ALL EO TIME LOW.
WE IN COORDINATION WITH PARTNERS
PULLED OUT OF PREPARATORY
MEETINGS FOR THE NEXT G-8
MEETING SUPPOSED TO TAKE PLACE
IN SOCHI OF ALL PLACES AND
CLEARLY IS GOING TO HAVE A
SHOWING IMPACT ON THE TRADE AND
COMMERCIAL RELATIONS RUSSIA
WANTS WITH THE WEST AND THE
UNITED STATES.
SO A COST IS ALREADY BEING
EXACTED AND THE PRESIDENT'S MADE
IT CLEAR THAT IF RUSSIA
CONTINUES ON THIS PATH, THERE
WILL BE ADDITIONAL COSTS.
>> Woodruff: IS THAT IN EFFECT
SAYING THE U.S. IS PREPARED TO
LET THE RUSSIANS STAY IN CRIMEA
GIVEN THE HISTORIC TIES?
>> THERE'S A CLEAR CHOICE AND
PATH -- THE RUSSIANS CAN
CONTINUE TO PURSUE THE COURSE
THEY'RE ON AND FACE GROWING AND
INCREASING ISOLATION AND
PRESSURE OR IT'S ACTUALLY VERY
STRAIGHTFORWARD, THEY CAN
WITHDRAW THEIR TROOPS AND, IF
THEY HAVE GENUINE CONCERNS ABOUT
THE TREATMENT OF ETHNIC
RUSSIANS, WHICH THE EXCUSE
THEY'VE GIVEN FOR GOING IN, THEN
WITHOUT VIOLATING UKRAINIAN
SOVEREIGN TERRITORY OR TRADING
THEY CAN ENGAGE WITH THE
GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE AND WE CAN
BRING IN INTERNATIONAL MONITORS
AND INSPECTORS FROM THE UNITED
NATIONS, THE OSCE, ORGANIZATIONS
TO WHICH RUSSIA BELONGS AND IT
CAN PLAY AN ACTIVE ROALT IN
MAKING SURE ITS INTERESTS ARE UP
HELD.
THE PRESIDENT WAS CLEAR TODAY
THAT'S THE CHOICE BEFORE RUSSIA
NOW.
>NOW.
>> Woodruff: AT THIS TIME,
THERE'S NO SIGN THE RUSSIANS ARE
PULLING BACK AND EVERY EVIDENCE
THEY'RE DIGGING DEEPER.
HOW WORRIED IS THE
ADMINISTRATION THAT THE RUSSIANS
WILL GO FURTHER INTO THE REST OF
UKRAINE?
>> JUDY, THE LONGER THIS GOES ON
AND IF RUSSIA PERSISTS IN THIS
COURSE, THE COSTS ARE GOING TO
GO UP IN TERMS OF ITS ISOLATION
AND IN TERMS OF BEING ABLE TO DO
THINGS IT WANTS TO DO AND WON'T
BE ABLE TO DO.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE WAY THAT
PRESIDENT PUTIN, I THINK,
DEFINING RUSSIA'S POWER IS TO
TRY TO INCREASE GLOBAL AND
ECONOMIC INFLUENCE.
EVERYTHING HE'S DOING AND WE'RE
DOING IN RESPONSE IS ACTUALLY
GUTTING THAT INFLUENCE.
IT'S THE ONLY WAY AT THE END OF
THE WAY YOU HAVE TO INFLUENCE
PEOPLE IS BY INTERVENING
MILITARILY OR COARSING OR
BRIBING THEM, YOU WON'T MUCH POF
TIME.
SO RUSSIA NEEDS TO CHANGE
COURSE.
AND THERE IS A WAY FORWARD TO
MAKE SURE ITS INTERESTS, ITS
LONGSTANDING TIES TO UKRAINE OF
CULTURE, LANGUAGE AND HISTORY
ARE PROTECTED AND THE UKRAINIAN
PEOPLE GET TO CHOOSE THEIR
FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IF
PRESIDENT PUTIN HAS EFFECTIVELY
DECIDED HE'S PREPARED TO LIVE
WITH THE COSTS, THAT IT MEANS SO
MUCH TO RUSSIA NOT TO HAVE
UKRAINE NOT GO THE DIRECTION ITS
GOING THAT HE'S PREPARED TO
ACCEPT THE FINANCIAL AND
CULTURAL AND OTHER COSTS YOU'RE
MENTIONING?
>> THERE ARE PLENTY OF PEOPLE
AROUND PRESIDENT PUTIN THAT
WOULD NOT WANT TO ACCEPT THE
COST.
WE'RE LOOKING AT MEASURES TAKEN
IN COORDINATION WITH OTHER
COUNTRIES TO INCREASE THE
PRESSURE AND A ISOLATION AND,
OVER TIME, IF IT TAKES THAT
LONG, I THINK THE COST WILL GET
TO A POINTED WHERE THEY DECIDE
TO CHANGE COURSE.
BUT WE DON'T NEED TO GO THERE.
THERE'S A VERY CLEAR WAY FORWARD
NOW, THERE'S A CLEAR PATH TO
DEESCALATE THIS PROBLEM AND
UPHOLD THE INTEREST THAT RUSSIA
ASSERTS, BUT TO GET RUSSIAN
TROOPS OUT, INTERNATIONAL
INSPECTORS IN, RUSSIA AND
UKRAINE TALKING, WE'RE PREPARED
TO FACILITATE ALL THAT.
>> SHOULD THE U.S. HOLD OFF ON
ANY FURTHER SIGNIFICANT ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS UNTIL THE EUROPEANS
ARE TOGETHER UNITED WITH THE
U.S. SO YOU CAN PRESENT A UNITED
FRONT?
>> YOU KNOW, WE'RE WORKING ON A
PACKAGE OF MEASURERS, BUT WE
WANT TO MAXIMIZE THEIR IMPACT IF
WE HAVE TO GO DOWN THAT ROUTE.
WHAT THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN
DOING IN MOBILIZING
INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT, IN
SPENDING THE LAST FEW DAYS ON
THE PHONE VIRTUALLY NONSTOP WITH
LEADERS AROUND THE WORLD IS
BUILDING THAT SUPPORT AND MAKING
SURE THAT WHATEVER ACTIONS WE
TAKE HAVE THE GREATEST IMPACT
POSSIBLE.
IT'S ONE THING FOR THE UNITED
STATES TO DO SOMETHING IN
ISOLATION, IT'S ANOTHER THING
WHEN WE WRITE ALONG THE REST TO
HAVE THE WORLD.
>> Woodruff: CAN YOU TRUST
PRESIDENT PUTIN'S WORD?
BECAUSE IT WAS JUST, I THINK,
DAYS AGO THAT THE PRESIDENT AND
SECRETARY KERRY HAD BEEN TALKING
WITH TOP RUSSIAN OFFICIALS AND,
IN THE BEGINNING, THEY SENT
EVERY INDICATION THEY WERE NOT
GOING TO MOVE FORWARD AND, YET,
THEY HAVE.
SO HOW ARE YOU TO BELIEVE OR TO
TRUST THEM AS YOU TALK TO THEM
GOING FORWARD?
>> IT'S NOT ABOUT TRUST.
IT'S ABOUT ACTIONS, DETERMINING
WHETHER THEY DO WHAT THEY SAY
AND, IF THEY DON'T, MAKING SURE
THAT THERE ARE CLEAR
REPERCUSSIONS FOR THAT.
BUT WHAT WE'RE LOOKING FOR IS A
CLEAR ACTION AND, AGAIN THERE'S
A WAY OUT OF THIS AND A WAY
FORWARD THAT INVOLVES RUSSIA
PULLING BACK, BRINGING ITS
TROOPS BACK TO THEIR BARRACKS
AND ALLOWING THE INTERNATIONAL
INSPECTORS TO GET IN THERE.
IF THEY HAVE GENUINE CONCERNS
ABOUT THE WAY PEOPLE ARE
TREATED, THOSE INSPECTORS CAN
E-VERIFY FACTS AND MAKE SURE THE
PEOPLE AREO PROTECTED.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU HAVE ANY
SENSE THAT MESSAGE IS GETTING
THROUGH?
WHO ARE AROUND PRESIDENT PUTIN?
>> THE OLIGARKS WHO SUPPORT HIM
AND OTHERS WHO SUPPORT HIM WHO
CLEARLY WANT TO BE ENGAGED
AROUND THE WORLD, WANT TO DO
BUSINESS AROUND THE WORLD AND
TRAVEL AROUND THE WORLD.
THEY HAVE TO ASK THEMSELVES IF
THE COURSE RUSSIA IS ON TO LEAD
TO GREATER ISOLATION WILL ALLOW
THEM TO DO WHAT THEY WANT TO
GOING FORWARD AND, OVER TIME IN
THE DAYS AHEAD, AGAIN, I THINK
YOU'RE SEEING THE PRESSURE
MOUNT.
AS I SAID EARLIER, WE'RE ALREADY
SEEING A PROFOUND IMPACT ON
RUSSIA'S FINANCIAL MARKETS AND
THOSE ARE REAL COSTS AND GOING
TO RAISE REAL QUESTIONS.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, TONE TONY
BLINKEN, WHAT DO YOU SAY TO THE
REPUBLICANS WHO SAY THAT PART OF
WHAT IS GOING ON IS PRESIDENT
OBAMA IS NOT FEARED BY THE
RUSSIANS AN AND THEREFORE ARE
OPERATING WITH IMPUNITY?
>> THERE IS A LOT OF TALK.
THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN
MOBILIZING THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY IN SUPPORT OF UKRAINE
AND TO ISOLATE RUSSIA FOR THE
ACTIONS TAKEN HERE, THAT'S BEEN
VERY SUCCESSFUL IN RECENT DAYS.
IF YOU LOOK AT WHAT WE'RE DOING
AROUND THE WORLD, I DON'T THINK
OUR LEADERSHIP IN BUILDING
EXTRAORDINARILY DEEP TIES OF
TRADE FOR EXAMINER I IN ASIA ANS
IMPORTANT IN OUR LEADERSHIP.
BUT IN THIS PARTICULAR INSTANCE,
THE PRESIDENT IS MOBILIZING THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY.
>> Woodruff: TONY BLINKEN,
DEPUTY ADVISORIES TO PT
ALL EYES ARE NOW ON RUSSIA, AS
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS TRY TO
DETERMINE HOW FAR VLADIMIR PUTIN
WILL OR WONT GO
FOR THAT WE GET TWO VIEWS,
STARTING WITH MICHAEL MCFAUL,
WHO STEPPED DOWN AS U.S.
AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA JUST LAST
WEEK.
YOU KNOW GLA VLADIMIR PUTIN OR E
BEEN THE SENIOR OFFICIAL WHO'S
KNOWN HIM BEST.
IS HE A BULLY OR A PRAGMATIST IN
THIS?
>> WELL, HE'S A FRUSTRATED
LEADER IS THE WAY I WOULD
DESCRIBE IT.
HE HAD A VISION FOR THE EURASIAN
ECONOMIC UNION, AS HE CALLED IT,
WHERE HE WOULD REUNITE IN AN
ECONOMIC UNION THE FORMER PIECES
OF THE SOVIET UNION IN PARALLEL
THE EUROPEAN UNION.
AND HE THOUGHT HE HAD ACHIEVED A
GREAT VICTORY LAST FALL WHEN
PRESIDENT YANUKOVYCH DEDITH AN T
WITH THE EUROPEAN UNION AND
DECIDED TO START NEGOTIATIONS
WITH RUSSIAN BUT THAT FELL APART
WHEN HE LOST POWER A FEW WEEKS
AGO.
I WAS WORKING WITH THE
GOVERNMENT LAST WEEK MEETING
WITH SENIOR RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS AND THEY WERE
EXTREMELY FRUSTRATED WITH THE
WEAKNESS IN THEIR VIEW OF
PRESIDENT YANUKOVYCH AND HOW HE
FLED AND WHY HEID
REPRESENT THEIR INTERESTS.
SO WHAT I THINK YOU'VE SEEN FROM
PRESIDENT PUTIN IN CRIMEA IS HIS
COUNTER-PUNCH.
IT'S TACTICAL.
I DON'T THINK HE KNOWS WHERE
HE'S GOING WITH THIS IN THE END
GAME, BUT A WAY TO PUT ON NOTICE
THE PEOPLE OF UKRAINE AND THE
REST OF EUROPE THAT HE'S NOT
JUST GOING TO GIVE AWAY IN HIS
VIEW UKRAINE.
>> Woodruff: WHEN THE
PRESIDENT SAYS TO HIM AS WE'RE
TOLD IN A PHONE CONVERSATION
THAT HE'S ON THE WRONG SIDE OF
HISTORY, WHAT LEAF BADGE DOES
THE U.S. HAVE TO ENFORCE THAT
NOTION?
>> WELL, YOU JUST HEARD TONY
OUTLINE IT ELOQUENTLY.
PRESIDENT PUTIN MADE HIS MOVE
HERE, BUT THERE ARE NOW COSTS.
THE INSPECTOR OF THE ECONOMIC
COSTS HAS ALREADY BEEN SEEN, HOW
PEOPLE ARE RESPONDING IN THE
MARKET IN MOSCOW.
I HAVE LOTS OF FRIENDS, BUSINESS
FRIENDS WHO ARE PANICKED ABOUT
THIS BECAUSE THEY HAVE A
DIFFERENT VISION OF RUSSIA.
THEY ALSO WANT RUSSIA TO BE A
GREAT POWER BUT THEY WANT IT TO
BE A GREAT ECONOMIC POWER.
THEY WANT IT TO BE A COUNTRY
THAT'S RESPECTED IN THE WORLD.
I JUST WAS IN SOCHI A FEW DAYS
AGO AND THE BUNG RUSSIANS WERE
INCREDIBLY PROUD OF THE NEW
RUSSIA ON DISPLAY THERE.
THIS ACTION IN CRIMEA IS WIPING
THAT AWAY.  I CAN'T PREDHO
LONG, BUT I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
TO EMPHASIZE WHAT TONY DID IS
NOW IS THE MOMENT FOR DIPLOMACY,
STILL A TIME WHEN RUSSIA CAN
BACK DOWN, CALL THE TROOPS BACK
AND LET THE UKRAINIANS DECIDE
HOW TO GOVERN THEMSELVES AS A
SOVEREIGN COUNTRY.
BUT IF IT GOES THE OTHER WAY,
THERE WILL BE COSTS.
AND THIS IS DIFFERENT THAN
SOVIET INTERVENTIONS IN '56 IN
HUNGARY OR CZECHOSLOVAKIA IN
'68 WHEN THE SOVIET UNION WAS
ISOLATE FROM THE WORLD ECONOMY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT WE'VE SEEN
IN THE PAST SEVERAL DAYS, THE
IDEA THEY PULL BACK AND SEND THE
TRAPS TO THE BARRACKS SEEMS MORE
REMOTE.
WHAT DO YOU THINK ARE THE
CHANCES THE UKRAINE WILL BECOME
INVOLVED NOW?
>> WELL, I AGREE A ANALYTICALLY
IT'S BECOMING MORE REMOTE, BUT
MY DIPLOMATIC HAT SAYS WE NEED
TO USE WHATEVER CHANCE THERE IS
TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN.
WITH RESPECT TO THE REST OF THE
EAST, OF COURSE, PRESIDENT PUTIN
PUT EVERYONE ON NOTICE THAT HE
WILL DEFEND THEM FROM THE
ALLEGED FRANTUM THREAT THAT IS
THERE, BECAUSE, OF COURSE, THERE
HAS BEEN NO THREAT, AND I'M
WORRIED.
I'LL BE HONEST.
I'M WORRIED THIS COULD SPIRAL
OUT OF CONTROL.
THE LAST THING THAT RUSSIA
NEEDS, THE UKRAINIANS NEED, THAT
EUROPE NEEDS OR THE UNITED
STATES IS ARMED CONFLICT IN A
COUNTRY OF 50 MILLION PEOPLE IN
THE HEART OF EUROPE.
>> Woodruff: IS THERE ALSO A
POSSIBILITY THERE WILL BE
LONG-TERM DAMAGEO U.S.-RUSSIA
RELATIONS?
>> WITHOUT QUESTION.
I MEAN, THE DAMAGE IS ALREADY
DONE.
WE'RE IN A DIFFERENT PHASE
ALREADY WITH RUSSIA AND, IF IT
PERSISTS, YES, OF COURSE.
ESPECIALLY IF YOU TALK ABOUT
SANCTIONS BECAUSE ONE THING THAT
PRESIDENT PUTIN ALWAYS
EMPHASIZES IN EVERY MEETING THAT
I'VE BEEN LISTENING TO HIM
SPEAKING TO THE PRESIDENT AND
WITH SECRETARY KERRY AND
SPEAKING WITH THE VICE PRESIDENT
IS HOW WE NEED TO FOCUS OUR
ATTENTION TON TRADE AND
INVESTMENT BETWEEN OUR TWO
COUNTRIES.
THIS AC OVER THE LAST FEW DAYS
MAKES THAT VIRTUALLY IMPOSSIBLER
BILATERAL RELATIONSHIP, AND I
FIND THAT VERY TRAGIC.
>> Woodruff: OF COURSE,
SECRETARY KERRY HEADS TO KIEV
TOMORROW.
AMBASSADOR MICHAEL McFAUL,
THANK YOU.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: NOW WE GET THE
PERSPECTIVE OF STEPHEN COHEN A
PROFESSOR OF RUSSIAN STUDIES AND
HISTORY EMERITUS AT NEW YORK
UNIVERSITY AND PRINCETON
UNIVERSITY.
WHY ARE WE IN THIS POSITION
TONIGHT, PROFESSOR COHEN?
WHAT IS PUTIN'S END GAME HERE?
>> I DON'T KNOW WHERE TO BEGIN
BECAUSE I'VE JUST LISTENED TO
TWO STATEMENTS TO HAVE THE -- OE
OFFICIAL AMERICAN POSITION.
THE POSITION OF WHERE WE ARE AND
HOW WE GOT HERE.
I THINK THEY'RE FUNDAMENTALLY
WRONG.
WHAT WE'RE WATCHING TODAY IS THE
WORST KIND OF HISTORY BEING
MADE, THE DISSENT OF A NEW COLD
WAR DIVIDE BETWEEN WEST AND EAST
IN EUROPE, THIS TIME NOT IN
FAR-AWAY BERLIN, BUT RIGHTS ON
RUSSIA'S BORDERS THROUGH
UKRAINE.
THAT WOULD MEAN INSTABILITY AND
THE PROSPECT OF WAR FOR DECADES
TO COME FOR OUR KIDS AND
GRANDCHILDREN.
THE OFFICIAL VERSION IS THAT
PUTIN IS TO BLAME.
HE DID THIS.
THIS SIMPLY ISN'T TRUE.
THIS BEGAN 20 YEARS AGO WHEN
CLINTON BEGAN THE MOVEMENT OF
NATO AGAINST RUSSIA, A MOVEMENT
THAT'S CONTINUED.
EVEN IF WE GO BACK TO NOVEMBER,
A FEW MONTHS AGO WHEN THE
PROTESTERS CAME INTO THE STREETS
INTO UKRAINE.
PUTIN SAID TO EUROPE AND
WASHINGTON, WHY ARE YOU FORCING
UKRAINE TO CHOOSE BETWEEN RUSSIA
AND EUROPE?
WE'RE PREPARED WITH EUROPE TO DO
A MINI-MARSHAL PLAN TO BAIL
UKRAINE OUT.
LET'S DO IT TOGETHER.
THAT WAS REFUSED BY WASHINGTON
AND BRUSSELS AND LED TO THE
SITUATION TODAY.
ONE LAST POINT, THE WORST
OUTCOME, YOU ASKED MICHAEL, AND
HE DIDN'T SAY, BUT HE SAID WHAT
HE DIDN'T WANT, THE WORST
OUTCOME BECAUSE WE HEAR THIS
CLAMOR IN WASHINGTON AND HEAR IT
IN EUROPE IS A MOVEMENT IN
RESPONSE TO WHAT PUTIN'S DONE IN
CRIMEA TO MOVE NATO FORCES TO
THE POLISH UKRAINIAN BORDER.
IF WE DO THAT, PUTIN WILL
CERTAINLY BRING TROOPS IN FROM
RUSSIA ITSELF.
THE TROOPS IN CRIMEA SEEM TO BE
TROOPS THAT WERE BASED AT THE
NAVAL BASE --
>> Woodruff: AND --
-- AND THEN YOU WILL HAVE A
REAL CONFRONTATION.
>> Woodruff: IS THIS SOMETHING
PUTIN MADE UP HIS MIND TO DO OR
IS THERE ROOM FOR A NEGOTIATED
SETTLEMENT, A GO-BETWEEN,
PERHAPS ANGELA MERKEL FROM
GERMANY?
>> YES, PUTIN DOESN'T TRUST
OBAMA, DOESN'T CONSIDER HIM A
STRONG AND RESOLUTE LEADER.
HE LIKES MERKEL.
THEY HAVE THEIR PROBLEMS.
THEY SPEAK GERMAN TOGETHER.
THE FUNDAMENTAL ISSUE IS THREE
OR FOUR YEARS AGO, PUTIN MADE
CLEAR HE HAD TWO RED LINES.
YOU REMEMBER OBAMA'S RED LINES
IN SIR.  I CAN'T PUTIN WAS
SERIOUS.
ONE IS IN THE FORMER SOVIET
REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA.
NATO COULDN'T COME THERE.
THE OTHER WAS IN UKRAINE.
WE CROSSED BOTH.
YOU HAVE A WAR IN GEORGIA IN
2008, AND TODAY IN UKRAINE
BECAUSE WE THE UNITED STATES AND
EUROPE CROSSED PUTIN'S RED LINE.
NOW, YOU CAN DEBATE WHETHER HE
HAS A RIGHT TO THE RED LINE AND
DISCUSS IT.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S NOT A
QUESTION, IS IT?
>> WELL, LET ME TURN IT BACK TO
YOU BECAUSE WHAT I HEAR IS AND
THE AMERICAN COMMENTARY IS
RUSSIA HAS NO LEGITIMATE
NATIONAL INTEREST ABROAD, NOT
EVEN ON ITS BORDERS, AS THOUGH
WE DON'T CARE WHAT HAPPENS IN
CANADA AND MEXICO.
AND NEVER SAID THAT ABOUT THE
SOVIET UNION, BY THE WAY.
WE RECOGNIZED THE SOVIET UNION
HAD NATIONAL INTERESTS.
IF THE POSITION IS THEY HAVE NO
LEGITIMATE NATIONAL SECURITY
INTERESTS THAT RUSSIA CAN
DEFEND, THEN WE ARE WHAT WE ARE.
IF WE ACKNOWLEDGE THE INTERESTS,
THERE ARE WAYS TO NEGOTIATE OUT
TO HAVE THE CRISIS.
I'M NOT SURE OBAMA CAN DO IT.
>> Woodruff: CAN KERRY DO IT?
NO.
>> Woodruff: WHAT SHOULD HE BE
TRYING TO DO AT THE MEETING?
>> I DON'T THINK KERRY IS GOING
TO KIEV FOR THE REASON HE'S
GIVING.
HE SAYS HE'S GOING TO FIND OUT
WHAT THE SO-CALLED GOVERNMENT IN
KIEV WANTS.
IT'S AN EXTREMIST GOVERNMENTR
INTERNATIONAL LEGI LEGITIMACY.
IT'S NOT ELECTIVE.
I THINK HE'S GOING TO CHILL OUT
THE GOVERNMENT.
WHAT KERRY AND OBAMA SHOULD DO
IS BEG MERKEL TO KEEP TALKING TO
PUTIN BECAUSE HE TRUSTS HER FOR
BETTER OR WORSE.
>> Woodruff: WHY IS ANY OF
THIS IMPORTANT TO ANYONE NOT IN
RUSSIA OR UKRAINE?
>> I TOLD YOU AT THE TOP.
I MEAN, YOU AND I ARE OLD ENOUGH
TO HAVE LIVED THROUGH DIVIDED
EUROPE IN BERLIN AND WE WERE
LUCKY, THEY SAY, WE SURVIVED IT.
NOW IMAGINE THAT ON THE BORDERS
OF RUSSIA.
I MEAN, JUST IMAGINE WHAT THAT
MEANS -- THE POSSIBILITY OF
PROVOCATION, THE POSSIBILITY OF
MISUNDERSTANDING, AND LET ME
MENTION ONE OTHER THING, YOU
WANT TO TALK ABOUT RUSSIA'S TIES
TO UKRAINE?
THEY ARE SIMPLY MORE PRIMARY.
TENS OF MILLIONS OF RUSSIANS AND
UKRAINIANS ARE MARRIED, THEY ARE
CONJUGAL, THEY HAVE CHILDREN
TOGETHER.
YOU PUT AN IRON CURTAIN RIGHT
THROUGH THAT BIOLOGICAL REALITY?
THIS IS MADNESS.
IT'S GONE THEREFOR.
>> Woodruff: PROFESSOR STEPHEN
COHEN OF THE NYU AND PRINCETON,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Brown: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
WE TURN TO A CLASSROOM PROGRAM
DESIGNED TO HELP YOUNG PEOPLE
COPE WITH P.T.S.D., A CONDITION
CAUSED NOT BY THE SHOCK OF WAR,
BUT BY THE STRESSES THEY
ENCOUNTER IN LIFE OUTSIDE THEIR
SCHOOLS.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> BREATH IN AND BRING YOUR ARMS
>> Brown: AT CESAR CHAVEZ
ACADEMY IN EAST PALO ALTO
CALIFORNIA, THESE SEVENTH
GRADERS ARE LEARNING THAT
FOCUSED BREATHING CAN LEAD TO
FOCUSED LEARNING.
>> Brown: STANFORD UNIVERSITY
RESEARCHERS JOHN REDTGER AND
MICHAEL FU ARE EXPERIMENTING
WITH YOGA AND MIFULNNDESS
PRACTICES TO HELP STUDENTS
CONCENTRATE ON CLASS WORK.
>> WE'RE GOING TO GET INTO OUR
RELAXED STATE AND WERE GOING TO
GET INTO MINDFUL PRACTICE, SO
LETS GET INTO MOUNTAIN POSE,
MOVE YOUR FEET SO THEY ARE
SHOULDER LENGTH APART
>> CAESAR IS IN A GH CHIRIME
NEIGHBORHOOD AND MANY STUDENTS
FACE REAL WORLD STRESSES AND
ANXIETIES AND FEARS WHICH CAN
IMPAIR THEIR ABILITY TO LEARN.
PRINCIPAL DION --
>> WE HAVE, BY THE 2010 CENSUS,
50% STUDENTS WHO ARE HOMELESS.
THERE ARE SOME VERY CONCRETE
THINGS LIKE A TELEPHONE, A
MATTRESS, A REFRIGERATOR WITH
FOOD IN IT, AN ADDRESS THAT YOU
ARE IN CHARGE OF
THAT'S NOT TO MENTION ETH
SHOOTINGS, LETS NOT EVEN GO INTO
THE GANG WAR THAT'S GOING ON
RIGHT NOW IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD.
JUST THE SIMPLE THINGS THAT ARE
STRESSFUL.
>> I WANT YOU TO NOTICE WHAT YOU
ARE FEELING, AND NOTICE YOU
EMOTION, CAN YOU SAY HOW YOU
FEEL?
>> EARLY LIFE STRESS RESEARCH
PROGRAM OVERSEAS THE PROJECT
THACAESAR CHAVEZ ACADEMY.
>> WE TALK ABOUT TRAUMA AND
ADVERSE THINGS.
WE HAVE THE WORDS SUICIDE,
DRUGS, SEXUAL ABUSE, STARVING.
THIS IS WHAT ADD VERSUS VERSE
CHILDHOOD EXPERIENCES ARE.
IT IS A CONSTANT LIFE OF THESE
CHILDREN ON A DAY-TO-DAY BASIS
AND NOT ONLY DO THEY LIVE IT BUT
THEY HAVE REMINDERS IN SCHOOL.
>> HE AND HIS COLLEAGUES ARE
TRYING TO UNDERSTAND HOW
CHILDREN RESPOND TO DAILY
STRESS, EMOTIONALLY AND EVENPHY.
>> WE ACTUALLY CAN SEE WHAT THE
BRAIN IS DOING.
>> Brown: HE SHOWED US I
THINKS OF IMAGES OF CHILDREN WHO
SUFFER FROM PRESS, FROM
COGNITIVE AND PTSD.
>> THERE'S A LINK BETWEEN STRESS
AND BEHAVIOR, ACTUALLY SHOWS UP
IN THE BRAIN.
>> IT DOES.
AND, SO, WHEN THERE IS STRESS
OR TRAUMA IN SOMEBODY'S LIFE, IT
SHOWS UP THERE.
>> YES, WHAT WE CAN SEE IS THERE
IS A DEFICIT IN THEIAR IN THE AE
MIDDLE FRONTAL CORTEX OF KIDS
WHO HAVE PTSD.
>> Brown: IN THE DEVELOPING
BRAIN OF A CHILD, PTSD
>> SO THE ISSUE WE HAVE WITH
CHRONIC STRESS, IT MANIFESTS AS
A PTSD SYNDROME OR DISORDER IS
THAT SOME OF THE AREAS THAT ARE
AFFECTED ARE AREAS THAT WE NEED
FOR OUR LEARNING.
FOR EXAMPLE, BRAIN CENTERS THAT
PROCESS MEMORY, BRAIN CENTERS
THAT PROCESS EXECUTIVE FUNCTION
ARE PARTICULARLY VULNERABLE.
SO PTSD CAN HAVE AN EFFECT IN
HOW CHILDREN LEARN BROWN.
>> Brown: ACCORDING TO CARRION,
UP TO 30% OF CHILDREN WHO LIVE
IN LOW-INCOME, HIGH POVERTY
NEIGHBORHOODS WILL SHOW SYMPTOMS
OF P.T.S.D.
FOR EVERY CHILD IN OUR SCHOOL
WHO ACTSUT,  OI CAN LOOK TO
SOMETHING IN THEIR LIFE T
EVERY SINGLE TIME THERE'S A
CONCRETE AND SAD STORY ABOUT WHY
THIS CHILD DOESN'T GET WHAT THEY
NEED.
>> BRING YOUR ARMS UP, PUT YOUR
LEFT LEG AROUND YOUR KNEE.
>> Brown: BY TEACHING CHILDREN
TO PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
BREATHING AND MOVEMENTS, THE
MEDICAL STUDENT HOPES THEY'RE
BETTER PREPARED TO CONCENTRATE.
>> THE PRINCIPAL TRY TO MAKE YOU
FOCUS ON THE PRESENT MOMENT, SO
WHETHER OR NOT YOU EXPERIENCED
SOMETHING BAD, FOR YOU TO BE
ABLE TO COME INTO THE CLASSROOM
AND EMBRACE IT AND EMBRACE THE
LEARNING, IT ALLOWS STUDENTS TO
REACH THEIR POTENTIAL.
>> Brown: THE STANFORD TEAM
ENCOURAGES THE OPPORTUNITIES TO
USE IT BEYOND THE CLASSROOM.
>> THIS IS A TOOL AVAILABLE TO
US, SO IF WE'RE WORKING WITH
ANGER OR FEAR OR SADNESS, THESE
ARE THINGS WE CAN DO TO CHANGE
OUR FEELING AND FEEL BETTER.
>> Brown: THESE STUDENTSER ARE
FINISHING A TEN-WEEK PROGRAM
WHEN WE VISITED.
THE TEACHER SAID AT FIRST THERE
WAS PLENTY OF SKEPTICISM.
>> IT TOOK US OUT OF THE COMFORT
ZONE AND WE WERE USING OUR
DIES AND BREATHING IN AND OUT
IN FRONT OF EVERYONE WITHOUT
GIGGLING AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
ONCE YOU GET IN THE ZONE OF YOUR
OWN, YOU BECOME COMFORTABLE AND
IT BECOMES SOMETHING NATURAL AS
OPPOSED TO SOMETHING THAT YOU'RE
NERVOUS ABOUT.
>> Brown: RYAN SAYS HE USES
MINDFULNESS AND YOGA AT HOME
WHEN HIS MOTHER WHO WORKS HER
THIRD JOB AT NIGHT REFUSES TO
LET BRIAN PLAY OUTSIDE.
>> WHEN I WANT TO PLAY, SHE
DOESN'T LET ME BECAUSE IT'S TOO
DARK.
I GET MAD, AND I GET ON MY YOGA
MAT AND DO YOGA, AND I'M NOT AN
ANGRY ANYMORE.
>> Brown: CAN CHILDREN LIVE
WITH TRAUMA AND LEARN TO COPE?
>> THEY LEARN TO COPE IF WE
TEACH THEM.
IF WE DON'T DO ANYTHING, THEIR
PTSD WON'T GO AWAY.
SO THEY MAY DEVELOP
SELF-INJURIOUS BEHAVIORS OF
SUBSTANCE ABUSE AS SELF
MEDICATING.
SO IF PTSTD IS AVOIDED, IT GETS
WORSE.
>> THE TEACHER HAS SEEN POSITIVE
RESULTS.
>> I'VE SEEN TREMENDOUS GROWTH
IN STUDENTS FROM BEING IN
MINDFULNESS, FROM, LIKE, KIDS
THAT HAVE ATTITUDES ARE QUICK TO
GET UPSET ABOUT SOMETHING,
BREATHING AND TAKING IT SLOWER
AND THEN SAYING, YOU KNOW, I
DIDN'T LIKE THAT OR PLEASE DON'T
DO THAT AS OPPOSED TO LASHING
OUT.
>> Brown: FOR THE PRINCIPAL,
ALL OF THIS IS VERY PERSONAL.
HER SISTER WAS MURDERED WHEN AS
A TEENAGER SHE GOT CAUGHT UP IN
A FIGHT.
SHE SAYS, TODAY, KEEPING
EMOTIONS IN CHECK CAN KEEP
CHILDREN SAFE.
>> IF WE CAN GET KIDS TO THE
POINT THAT THEY REALIZE, OH, I'M
GETTING HOT HEADED, MY
ADRENALINE IS FLOWING, I AM NOT
THINKING CLEARLY, I NEED TO
STOP, STEP BACK AND REASSESS,
AND THEN MAYBE WE HAVE A CHANCE.
>> Brown: T STANFORD TEAM IS
GAERINTHG DATA FROM STUDENTS
ABOUT THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE
MINDFULNESS PROGRAM.
>> Ifill: WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK
WITH A LOOK AT THE HEATED
GOVERNOR'S RACE IN TEXAS.
BUT FIRST, THIS IS PLEDGE WEEK
ON P.B.S.
THIS BREAK ALLOWS YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT.ES ON
OUR SCIENCE PA.GE
>> Woodruff: THIS YEAR'S PRIMARY
ELECTION SEASON OFFICIALLY GETS
UNDERWAY TOMORROW IN TEXAS,
WHERE VOTERS WILL DECIDE ON A
NUMBER OF RACES, INCLUDING THE
NOMINEES FOR GOVERNOR.
WHILE THERE IS LITTLE DOUBT
ABOUT THE TWO CANDIDATES
EXPECTED TO WIN, BOTH HAVE
STUMBLED OUT OF THE GATE.
>> Woodruff: HIGH-PROFILE, AND
HIGH-DOLLAR, TOMORROW'S TEXAS
PRIMARIES COULD PAVE THE WAY FOR
THE MOST COMPETITIVE BATTLE FOR
GOVERNOR HERE IN YEARS.
THE REPUBLICAN FAVORITE, STATE
ATTORNEY GENERAL GREGG ABBOTT,
S PRHAOMOTED HIS CONSERVATIVE
VIEWS ON SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC
ISSUES.
>> OVER THIS PAST YEAR TEXAS
MOVED OUT OF THE TOP TEN STATES
FOR ITS TAX STATUS.
I WANT TO SEE TEXAS MOVE BACK
INTO THE TOP TEN HAVING A LOW
TAX STRUCTURE CAUSE ITS ONE OF
THE BEST ECONOMIC INCENTIVES
THAT WILL ATTRACT BUSINESSES
HERE.
>> Woodruff: ABBOTT HAS ALSO
TAKEN FIRE FOR CAMPAIGNING
ALONGSIDE TED NUGENT, EVEN AFTER
THE ROCK MUSICIAN REFERRED TO
PRESIDENT OBAMA AS A SUB-HUMAN
MONGREL.
ON THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE:
>> IS IT STILL YOUR INTENTION TO
FILIBUSTER?
>> YES MR. PRESIDENT.
>> Woodruff: STATE SENATOR WENDY
DAVIS ROCKET TO EDNATIONAL
PROMINENCE IN JUNE AFTER SHE
TEMPORARILY DERAILED A
REPUBLICAN BILL TO IMPOSE TOUGH
NEW RESTRICTIONS ON ABORTIONS.
>> LAWS ARE TO CREATE JUSTICE
FOR ALL.
>> WE ALSO RECEIVED THIS WRITTEN
TESTIMONY.
>> THERE IS A MEDICAL NECESSITY.
WOMEN NEED TIMELY ACCESS.
>> Woodruff: DAVIS'S 11-HOUR
FILIBUSTER MADE HER AN INSTANT
HIT IN HER PARTY, AND IN
OCTOBER, SHE DECLARED  FOR
GOVERNOR.
SINCE THEN, SHE'S FACED SCRUTINY
AFTER PARTS OF HER PERSONAL
STORY TURNED OUT TO BE
INACCURATE.
TEXAS VOTERS ALSO CHOOSE U.S.
SENATE NOMINEES TOMORROW.
INCUMBENT REPUBLICAN JOHN CORNYN
IS EXPECTED TO DEFEAT A PRIMARY
CHALLENGE BY TEA PARTY
CONGRESSMAN STEVE STOCKMAN.
CORNYN WILL ALSO BE FAVORED INE.
AND IN THE GOVERNOR'S RACE, A
RECENT UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS-TEXAS
TRIBUNE POLL GIVES ABBOTT THE
LEAD OVER DAVIS IN NOVEMBER.
>> Woodruff: WE TAKE A CLOSER
LOOK AT THE GUBERNATORIAL BATTLE
IN THE LONE STAR STATE WITH
WAYNE SLATER, SENIOR POLITICAL
WRITER FOR THE DALLAS MORNING
NEWS.
WAYNE, WELCOME BACK TO THE
PROGRAM.
TELL US A LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT
THIS GOVERNOR'S CONTEST.
I GUESS THERE'S NOT A LOT OF
ATTENTION ABOUT TOMORROW'S
PRIMARIES.
PEOPLE ARE ALREADY FOCUSING ON
NOVEMBER.
WENDY DAVIS INTRODUCING HERSELF
TO THE VOTERS.
HOW HAS SHE DONE THAT?
>> WELL, THE CAMPAIGN -- WENDY
DAVIS' CAMPAIGN DECIDED AT THE
VERY BEGINNING THEY WERE GOING
TO LEAD WITH THEIR COMPELLING
PERSONAL NARRATIVE.
THE NARRATIVE WAS SHE WAS A
DIVORCED MOTHER LIVING IN A
TRAILER WHO WORKED HER WAY UP
THROUGH HARVARD LAW SCHOOL AND
ELECTORAL SUCCESS NOW IN THE
TEXAS SENATE.
AS YOU INDICATED, IN THE PIECE,
PART OF THAT STORY IS NOT
PRECISELY TRUE.
SO SHE HAS STUMBLED COMING OUT
OF THE GATE.
BY LEADING THAT STORY, PART OF
IT TRUE, PART OF IT NOT
PRECISELY TRUE, IT CONFUSED SOME
DEMOCRATIC VOTERS AND, IN THE
CASE OF WENDY DAVIS, RUNNING IN
A STATE WHERE A DEMOCRAT HAS NOT
WON FOR GOVERNOR SINCE ANN
RICHARDS IN 1990, SHE HAS TO
HAVE EVERYTHING THERE RIGHT FOR
HER, AND PROBABLY A FEW THINGS
GO WRONG FOR HER REPUBLICAN
OPPONENT -- LIKELY OPPONENT
GREGG ABBOTT.
>> Woodruff: HOW DID SHE
HANDLE IT WHEN YOUR STORY CAME
OUT?
>> YEAH, SHE -- THEY DID NOT
HANDLE IT WELL.
THE CAMPAIGN WAS SLOW TO
RESPOND, IT WAS SLOW TO RESPOND
WELL.
IT TOOK ABOUT TEN DAYS BEFORE
SHE HAD A REALLY COMPELLING
SPEECH HERE IN AUSTIN WHERE SHE
TOOK ISSUE WITH SOME ELEMENTS IN
THE STORY, APPEARED WITH ONE OF
HER TWO DAUGHTERS AS IF TO BEAT
BACK ANY SUGGESTION THAT SHE WAS
ANYTHING OTHER THAN A GOOD
MOTHER -- THAT WAS THE
IMPLICATION NOT THAT MY STORY
BROUGHT, BUT THAT SOME CRITICS
READING THE STORY SUGGESTED.
BUT IT TOOK TEN DAYS, AND THE
CAMPAIGN WAS STILL IN A STATE OF
FLUX, HAVING SOME REPORTERS NOT
EVEN BEING ALLOWED TO ATTEND THE
SPEECH, SHUTTING OUT ALL BUT ONE
GROUP FROM THE SPEECH.
SO IT'S NOT A GOOD AN WAY FOR HR
CAMPAIGN TO BEGIN.
I THINK THEY UNDERSTOOD THEY
MADER ROARS AND NEED TO PROJECT
HER MESSAGE MORE SUCCESSFULLY.
BECAUSE IF IT'S GOING TO BE, THE
NOMINEES HAVE A SHARP
DISTINCTION BETWEEN THE
REPUBLICAN AND WENDY DAVIS THE
DEMOCRAT IN NOVEMBER.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TALK ABOUT
REPUBLICAN GREG GREG, THE
CONSERVATIVE STATE ATTORNEY
GENERAL.
WHAT DO VOTERS KNOW OF HIM?
>> YEAH, UNLIKE WENDY DAVIS WHO
IS A RELATIVE NEWCOMER HERE,
EVEN PEOPLE IN TEXAS HAVE
LEARNED ABOUT HER FROM HER
FILIBUSTER LAST YEAR.
GREGG ABBOTT HAS BEEN ON THE
SCENE FOR TWO DECADES.
HE WAS A MEMBER OF THE TEXAS
SUPREME COURT AND FOR A DECADE
HAS BEEN THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
VERY CONSERVATIVE.
AS A CONSERVATIVE ATTORNEY
GENERAL, HE HAS TOUTED THE IDEA
THAT HE HAS STOOD UP AND FOUGHT
ALL THE WAY TO THE SUPREME COURT
THE RIGHT FOR THE TEXAS -- THE
TEN COMMANDMENTS MONUMENT TO
REMAIN ON TEXAS GROUNDS.
HE WON THAT CASE.
HE IS VERY BIG ON SECOND
AMENDMENT RIGHTS.
I JUST SAW A TWEET FROM HIM THE
OTHER DAY IN WHICH HE WAS WITH
LAW ENFORCEMENT PEOPLE HOLDING A
SEMI-AUTOMATIC WEAPON.
HE POSED ON THE COVER OF "TEXAS
MONTHLY MAGAZINE" WITH A GUN,
TRADITIONAL CAMPAIGN TACTICS
HERE IN TEXAS.
AND IF HE HAS ONE THEME,
FRANKLY, IT'S A THEME MANY
REPUBLICANS THIS PRIMARY SEASON
HAVE, IT IS I HAVE SUED THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION SCORES OF
TIMES AND WONANIT MS IN JUST
ABOUT ANYTHING THAT THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WANTS TO DO,
THAT'S GOOD STUFF IN A
REPUBLICAN PRIMARY.
I'M NOT SURE HOW IT'S GOING TO
PLAY IN THE GENERAL.
>> Woodruff: IF HE'S STRIKING
SO MANY NOTES PLAYING WELL WITH
VOTERS, WHAT GIVES WENDY DAVIS'
CAMPAIGN SOME HOPE?
>> A COUPLE OF THINGS.
ONE, THERE'S A GROWING HISPANIC
POPULATION, OBVIOUSLY.
THIS HAS BEEN GOING ON FOR
YEARS, JUDY, AND YOU'VE PROBABLY
WATCHED IT OVER THE YEARS.
THE PROBLEM WITH THE GROWING
HISPANIC POPULATION, BY 2020 200
WILL BE A PLURALITY IN TEXAS AND
BY 2030 LATINOS WILL BE A
MAJORITY IN THE STATE, IS
THEY'RE NOT A MAJORITY OR A
PLURALITY YET AND DON'T VOTE IN
NUMBERS THAT REFLECT THEIR
POPULATION AS A WHOLE.
THE WENDY DAVIS PEOPLE AND A
GROUP OF BARACK OBAM OF OBAMA OP
A CAMPAIGN THAT WANT TO LOCATE,
IDENTIFIED, REGISTER AND TURN
OUT GROWING NUMBERS OF HISPANIC
VOTERS THAT TRADITIONALLY VOTE
DEMOCRATIC.
IF WENDY DAVIS CAN SOUND THE
MESSAGE TO SUBURBAN WOMEN,
MODERATE EVEN REPUBLICAN-LEANING
WOMEN IN DALLAS, HOUSTON,
SAN ANTONIO AND AUSTIN, THEN
WOMEN WILL VOTE FOR HER BECAUSE
WILOF HER COMPELLING STORY, WHOE
IS, ADVOCACY FOR WOMEN'S RIGHTS
AND HEALTH ISSUES, THEN SHE CAN
WIN.
ANN RICHARDS WON BY GETTING 61%
OF THE WOMEN'S VOTE.
WENDY NEEDS 60-61% OF THE WOMEN,
AND GROWING HISPANICS.
SHE COULD WIN.
>> Woodruff: DALLAS MORNING
NEWS, WAYNE, THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE CONFRONTATION IN CRIMEA
SHOWED NO SIGN OF ABATING.
RUSSIAN FORCES CONSOLIDATED
THEIR CONTROL, AS UKRANIAN
LEADERS CALLED FOR INTERNATIONAL
ACTION TO PUNISH MOSCOW.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WARNED RUSSIA
THAT IT'S ON THE WRONG SIDE OF
HISTORY IN UKRAINE AND HE SAID
HE'S CONSIDERING DIPLOMATIC AND
ECONOMIC STEPS.
AND YET ANOTHER WINTER STORM
STRUCK THE MID-ATLANTIC AND
NORTHEAST, SHUTTING DOWN
WASHINGTON D.C. AND CANCELING
THOUSANDS OF FLIGHTS.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW: WHAT WOULD VINCENTT
VAN GOGH OR ANDY WARHOL THINK OF
TODAY'S SELFIES?
WE LOOK AT THE CONNECTION
BETWEEN SELF PORTRAITS AND THE
PHOTOS WE TAKE OF OURSELVES, IS
IT VANITY OR IS IT ART?
AS PART OF OUR VICE WEEK SERIES.
PLUS, SNOWY WEATHER IS ONCE
AGAIN TESTING THE NORTHEAST, YOU
CAN TEST YOURSELF WITH A QUIZ ON
THIS YEAR'S WINTER WEATHER.
ALSO, FIND PAST CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT TWO FILMS HONORED AT THE
ACADEMY AWARDS LAST NIGHT: "12
YEARS A SLAVE" AND THE
DOCUMENTARY "20 FEET FROM
STARDOM."
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S LATEST BUDGET.
PLUS, THE LATEST FROM UKRAINE.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND HERE
TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND
GOODNIGHT.